So let's take a brief tour of
the history of the birth of Internet.
The year was 1957 and
Russia launched Sputnik.
This caught everyone
in the US by surprise.
They created
Advanced Research Projects Agency, ARPA.
Later on, it became Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency, DARPA.
And their goal was to create really,
really advanced technologies 10,
15 years, down the road because they
never ever wanted to be surprised again.
And one of the initiators was to build
a reliable communications
system from the ground up.
The networks we saw in module 1,
they did not have this.
The telephony system and
the broadcast system.
The RF links were common
in telephony by that time,
between different central offices.
And you could literally jam the air of
towers with the high power transmitter.
There were also periods where
the network capacity wasn't enough.
There would be too much congestion,
like when you have an earthquake or
a natural disaster.
Certain sections of
the network would crash, and
you would have reduced capacity.
Or like on Mother's Day,
there would be way too much traffic.
Everybody wants to call their mother,
and you cannot get through
the system sometimes.
So DARPA commissioned this work,
to do one and
only one thing,
that was reliable communications.
They needed a survivable command and
control system in the face
of the Cold War era.
The internet was the result.
The actually came from packet
network interconnection.
It was first coined by Vince and Bob.
They were many other people who
contributed to the internet.
I suggest you take 15,
20 minutes to check out this website and
there is a timeline of the people and
the significant events.
It's very, very informative.
The early contributors for the internet
were drawn from the ranks of different
contractors and federally funded think
tanks and some big universities.
Rand corporation,
Lincoln Labs, MIT, UCLA, Bolt,
Beranek and Newman,
that's called BBN now in Boston.
And they were all given lots of funding
from the defense department and ARPA.
The two key people there were J.
Licklider, he was called Lick.
And Bob Taylor, Larry Gables.
They were part of ARPA Information
Processing Technology Office..
They challenged, championed this
effort and provided funding.
So the first experiment was between SRI,
you see Santa Barbara,
you see Los Angeles and Utah.
This was in 1969 and
it was called the ARPANET,
eventually became the internet so
they were able to communicate
between these locations.
In about five years, there were many many
more sites that came onto the system.
So how did they grow so
far, so big, and so fast?
See, at that time, AT&T had a massive
network of long-distance lines and,
huge number of central
offices throughout the country,
from which you could lease landlines.
So all this research centers all
involved in early internet development.
They leased the long distance lines
from AT&T, made long distance calls, and
never hung up so
you had the circuit always connected but
there were multiple people using that
connection to share packet data.
NSFNET another network at
that time funded by NSF.
This shows the traffic in 1991.
The backbone nodes you can see on
the top and the regional networks below.
And the purple denotes zero bytes and
the white lines are hundred billion bytes.
So the network was growing enormously, and
this whole notion of switching packets
based on the usage was catching on.
And there has been an exponential
growth in the number of hosts and
the connections.
You remember the network effect we saw.
In the first module by Metcalf.
Now you have about a billion
hosts on the network.
Imagine the value of this network.
Its evident that they rely
on the Internet so much.